---
layout: default-layout
title: Release Notes v9.x - Dynamsoft Barcode Reader SDK C Edition
description: This is the release notes page of Dynamsoft Barcode Reader SDK C Edition v9.x.
keywords: release notes, c
needGenerateH3Content: false
permalink: /programming/c/release-notes/c-9.html
---

# Release Notes for C Edition - 9.x

## 9.6.30 (08/29/2023)

### New

- Added method `GetInstancePoolStatus` and struct `InstancePoolStatus` to provide a real-time view of how your concurrent instance licenses are being utilized.

### Improved

- Optimized the concurrent instance management and license usage statistics.
- Extended the availability of methods `GetInstance` and `Recycle`, making them accessible for all licensing modes.
- Implemented additional checkpoints to ensure timely timeout and termination.

### Fixed

- Fixed a bug where barcode decoding results varied across different operating systems.
- Fixed a crash bug when initializing license with a segmented license string.
- Fixed some bugs of barcode format settings when they are defined in the `RegionDefinition` area of the template.

## 9.6.20 (03/16/2023)

### Fixed

- Fixed a bug where the methods DBR_InitLicense and DBR_GetInstance may not work as expected when using concurrent instance license.
- Fixed a bug where license authorization may fail when the main license server is not available.
- Other small fixes and tweaks.

## 9.6.10 (01/10/2023)

### New

- Added a new method [`DBR_SetLicenseCachePath`]({{site.c_methods}}license.html#dbr_setlicensecachepath) to support customizing the license cache saving path.
- Add a new method [`DBR_GetDeviceUUID`]({{site.c_methods}}license.html#dbr_getdeviceuuid) to support getting device UUID for license activating.
- Added error code `DMERR_LICENSE_BUFFER_FAILED` to the potential error list of the license activation methods and decode methods. The error code is returned when the directory of the license cache is inaccessible.

### Improved

- Improved the performance of Direct Part Marking (DPM) barcode decoding.
- Improved the performance of GS1 Databar barcode decoding.

### Fixed

- Fixed a crash bug when using a online license key on ARM64 environment.
- Fixed a crash bug when using a online license key on the AWS lambda environment.
- Fixed a bug that some OneD barcodes without start & stop characters are not decoded when parameter [`RequireStartStopChars`]({{site.parameters_reference}}require-start-stop-chars.html) is set to 0.
- Other small fixes and tweaks.

## 9.6.0 (11/29/2022)

<div class="fold-panel-prefix"></div>

### Version Highlights <i class="fa fa-caret-down"></i>

<div class="fold-panel-start"></div>

{%- include release-notes/product-highlight-9.6.0.md -%}

<div class="fold-panel-end"></div>

### Edition Highlights

- Added duplicate barcode filter feature in video mode. You can implement duplicate filter to ignore duplicate barcodes for a period.

### Changelog

#### New

- Added a property [`orientation`]({{ site.structs }}FrameDecodingParameters.html?src=c#orientation) to struct `FrameDecodingParameters` to set the orientation information of the video frame.
- Added [`orientation`]({{ site.structs }}ImageData.html?src=c#orientation) to struct ImageData to set the orientation information.
- Enabled decoding methods `DBR_DecodeFile()`, `DBR_DecodeFileinMemory()` and `DBR_DecodeBase64String()` to read EXIF data of the given image so that the library can obtain the orientation information of the image file.
- Added a property [`transformationMatrix`]({{ site.structs }}LocalizationResult.html?src=c##transformationmatrix) to struct `LocalizationResult` so that the library can output a transformation matrix for transforming the localization coordinates to image's natural orientation.
- Added a method [`DBR_TransformCoordinates()`]({{site.c_methods}}general.html#dbr_transformcoordinates) to support transforming the coordinates of a point based on a given transformation matrix.
- Added a method [`DBR_DecodeImageData()`]({{site.c_methods}}decode.html#dbr_decodeimagedata) to enable decoding barcodes from source image defined as ImageData.
- Added a property [`duplicateForgetTime`]({{ site.structs }}FrameDecodingParameters.html?src=c#duplicateforgettime) to struct `FrameDecodingParameters` to set the time period used to filter out duplicate results found in frames.
- Added a method [`DBR_SetUniqueBarcodeCallback()`]({{site.c_methods}}video.html#dbr_setuniquebarcodecallback) to set callback function to obtain unique barcode result.
- Added properties [`hasLeftRowIndicator`]({{ site.structs }}PDF417Details.html?src=c#hasleftrowindicator) and [`hasRightRowIndicator`]({{ site.structs }}PDF417Details.html?src=c#hasrightrowindicator) to struct `PDF417Details` to return whether the left and right row indicator of the PDF417 barcode is detected.
- Added a member `BF2_ALL` to enumeration [`BarcodeFormatIds_2`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}format-enums.html?src=c#barcodeformat_2) to support setting all barcode formats in BarcodeFormat group 2 with one enumeration.
- Extended the features of parameter `DeformationResistingModes`:
  - Extended the valid mode arguments of `DRM_BROAD_WARP`, `DRM_LOCAL_REFERENCE` and `DRM_DEWRINKLE` with two new arguments: [`GrayscaleEnhancementMode`]({{site.parameters_reference}}deformation-resisting-modes.html#grayscaleenhancementmode) and [`BinarizationMode`]({{site.parameters_reference}}deformation-resisting-modes.html#binarizationmode).
  - Supported mode [`DRM_AUTO`]({{site.parameters_reference}}deformation-resisting-modes.html#drm_auto).

#### Improved

- Improved the accuracy when processing multiple QR codes.
- Improved the processing speed by excluding incorrectly located barcode zones before decoding.
- Improved the creation, destruction and acquisition logic of concurrent instances.
- Improved the accuracy of EAN8 localization result(s).
- Improved the localization of mirrored DataMatrix barcode by implementing `MirrorMode`.

#### Fixed

- Fixed a bug that DotCodes might not be decoded when they are densely arranged.
- Fixed a crash bug when trying to output a template which included `BarcodeTextRegExPattern`.
- Other small fixes and tweaks.

## 9.4.0 (08/30/2022)

### Highlights

{%- include release-notes/product-highlight-9.4.0.md -%}

### Changelog

#### New

- Added an argument [`IsOneDStacked`]({{site.parameters_reference}}localization-modes.html#isonedstacked) to `LM_SCAN_DIRECTLY` to process stacked OneD barcodes.
- Added a parameter [`PatchCodeSearchingMargins`]({{site.parameters_reference}}patchcode-searching-margins.html) to specify the searching area of PatchCode.
- Added the supported data format of [`FormatSpecification.PartitionModes`]({{site.parameters_reference}}partition-modes.html) to enhance the readability of the parameters. Users can use a list of enumeration names to specify the `PartitionModes`.

#### Improved

- Improved the localization mode `LM_LINES` to better support skewed and perspective OneD barcodes.
- Enhanced tamper resistance of the license keys so that any change to the license string makes it invalid.

#### Deprecated

- Deprecated the attribute `barcodeFormatString_2` of [`TextResult`]({{site.structs}}TextResult.html?src=c#barcodeformatstring_2), [`ExtendedResult`]({{site.structs}}ExtendedResult.html?src=c#barcodeformatstring_2) and [`LocalizationResult`]({{site.structs}}LocalizationResult.html?src=c#barcodeformatstring_2). All the barcode format strings will be returned by the attribute `barcodeFormatString`.

## 9.2.0 (06/07/2022)

### Highlights

{%- include release-notes/product-highlight-9.2.0.md -%}

### Changelog

#### New

- Added a new method [`DBR_SetDeviceFriendlyName`]({{site.c_methods}}license.html#dbr_setdevicefriendlyname) to set a human-readable name that identifies the device.

#### Fixed

- Fixed a bug that `DBR_InitLicense` failed when using [online license](https://www.dynamsoft.com/license-server/docs/about/terms.html?ver=latest#online-license) on Linux ARM 32-bit system.

## 9.0.0 (03/15/2022)


### Highlights

{%- include release-notes/product-highlight-9.0.0.md -%}

### Changelog

#### New

- Added `BF_CODE_11` under Enumeration [`BarcodeFormat`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}format-enums.html#barcodeformat) to specify newly supported barcode format, Code 11. 
- Added `BF2_PHARMACODE_ONE_TRACK`, `BF2_PHARMACODE_TWO_TRACK` and `BF2_PHARMACODE` under Enumeration [`BarcodeFormat_2`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}format-enums.html#barcodeformat_2) to specify newly supported barcode format, Pharmacode. 
- Added a new error code [`DBRERR_PHARMACODE_LICENSE_INVALID`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}error-code.html#error-code--10062) which will be returned when the license of Pharmacode is invalid.
- Added `DRM_BROAD_WARP`, `DRM_LOCAL_REFERENCE` and `DRM_DEWRINKLE` under Enumeration [`DeformationResistingMode`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}parameter-mode-enums.html#deformationresistingmode) to apply new deformation resisting modes.
- Added a parameter [`FormatSpecification.PartitionModes`]({{ site.parameters_reference }}partition-modes.html)
- Added a parameter [`FormatSpecification.VerifyCheckDigit`]({{ site.parameters_reference }}verify-check-digit.html)
- Added new argument [`ConfidenceThreshold`]({{ site.parameters_reference }}localization-modes.html#confidencethreshold) to the `LocalizationModes` mode arguments.

#### Changed
- Changed value of BF_ONED under Enumeration [`BarcodeFormat`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}format-enums.html#barcodeformat) to 0x003007FF to have BF_CODE_11 combined.
- Changed value of BF_ALL under Enumeration [`BarcodeFormat`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}format-enums.html#barcodeformat) to 0xFE3FFFFF to have BF_CODE_11 combined.
- Changed the behaviour of [`DeformationResistingMode`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}parameter-mode-enums.html#deformationresistingmode) DRM_GENERAL which now only applies basic process to resist deformation.
- Changed the return value of the method [`DBR_GetIdleInstancesCount`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_getidleinstancescount) from 0 to -1 when the available count needs to be updated from server by calling DBR_InitLicense.

#### Fixed
- Fixed a bug that might cause a crash when using multiple threads for barcode decoding.
- Fixed a bug that Function Code 1 (FNC1) character would not return if it was in the first position of GS1-128 codes.
- Other small fixes and tweaks.


#### Breaking Change(s)

- [`DBR_InitLicense`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_initlicense) now needs two more parameters to return detailed error message.

#### Deprecated

The following items are now deprecated. They still work in this version but could be removed in the near future.
- Method [`DBR_InitLicenseFromServer`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_initlicensefromserver)
- Method [`DBR_InitLicenseFromLicenseContent`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_initlicensefromlicensecontent)
- Method [`DBR_OutputLicenseToString`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_outputlicensetostring)
- Method [`DBR_OutputLicenseToStringPtr`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_outputlicensetostringptr)
- Method [`DBR_FreeLicenseString`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_freelicensestring)
- Method [`DBR_InitDLSConnectionParameters`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_initdlsconnectionparameters)
- Method [`DBR_InitLicenseFromDLS`]({{ site.c_methods }}license.html#dbr_initlicensefromdls)
- Enumeration [`DM_ChargeWay`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}other-enums.html#dm_chargeway)
- Enumeration [`DM_DeploymentType`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}other-enums.html#dm_deploymenttype)
- Enumeration [`DM_LicenseModule`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}other-enums.html#dm_licensemodule)
- Enumeration [`DM_UUIDGenerationMethod`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}other-enums.html#dm_uuidgenerationmethod)
- Enumeration [`Product`]({{ site.c_cpp_enumerations }}other-enums.html#product)


